PCOS diagnosis can show up anytime during a woman's lifetime it can be at the beginning around puberty and even after menopause. But many women often find out they have PCOS condition in their 20s and 30s when it gives them a trouble of becoming pregnant. 

The challenge with PCOS is that there are so many physical variations complication condition in women. For example, when women miss their menstrual cycles and have excess amount of hair growth on their face and body, these two type of symptoms are not the same for everyone with PCOS and may vary in their severity. 

To diagnose a woman with PCOS, she must experience at least two of the three these main symptoms given below. 

Irregular menstrual cycles: Irregular, infrequent or no periods are the main cause of a lack of ovulation. For example, a woman may have fewer than nine periods a year or have unpredictable periods can be more less than 9. 
Higher than normal levels of male hormones (androgens). A woman typically makes small amounts of male sex hormones in their body, such as testosterone. But when her ovaries produce excessive amounts of androgens that may cause hormonal imbalance that may have unwanted hair growth on her face and body, known as hirsutism. High androgen levels may also lead to severe acne problem and thinning hair on the scalp, known as male-pattern baldness.  
Polycystic ovaries. An ultrasoundis done for woman's ovaries that will show that she has small collections of undeveloped follicles in their ovary. Some PCOS patients' ovaries appear to be normal, and other women with cysts (fluid-filled sacs) on their ovaries may not have PCOS.
The common signs and symptoms of PCOS may include:

Infertility: Women with PCOS do not ovulation on the regularly or frequently interval of time, so they have fewer chances per year of becoming pregnant in their life span.

Infrequent, irregular or absent menstrual periods

Hirsutism, which is will increased hair growth on the face, chest, stomach, thumbs or toes, and may cause a woman to feel more self-conscious about her appearance. 

Ovaries that are enlarged or have many cysts

Acne or oily skin

Weight gain or obesity: It's not clear whether having PCOS makes a woman prone to obesity or whether obesity make a woman prone to PCOS. Being obese, may make PCOS symptoms more severe. 

Male-pattern baldness or thinning hair

Thick, dark patches of skin on the neck, arms, breasts or thighs called acanthosis nigricans. 

Skin tags, which are excess flaps of skin in the armpits or neck area

Pelvic pain

PCOS diagnosis and treatment

According to the experts, there's no one test that can definitively diagnose PCOS, but tests typically include:

Physical exam: we see blood pressure, waist size and body mass index (BMI) are measured, and areas of excess hair growth are noted down for further.

Pelvic exam: Enlarged or swollen ovaries can indicate many small cysts.

Blood tests: Androgen and glucose levels are checked.

Vaginal ultrasound: A sonogram wand, which uses sound waves to produce images of the pelvic area, is placed in the vagina. This test is done to look at the size of the ovaries, which may be enlarged, and to see if they have cysts. It will also look at the uterine lining to see if it is thickened, which can suggest PCOS.

Treatment & medications

It is virtually impossible to treat all of the polycystic ovarian syndrome diagnosis at once. So, she typically asks her patients, "What is your primary concern with PCOS?" and then focuses treatment on managing those symptoms first. 

For example, if a woman's main concern is her excess hair growth that would typically prescribe birth control pills, which can help reduce levels of androgens. But, she said, that if a woman also wants to become pregnant, then birth control pills would not be an appropriate treatment. 

The treatment options available for PCOS are more effective at managing a woman's symptoms, but symptoms don't immediately go away with the treatment. In case of lifestyle changes, such as eating healthy and exercising regularly, which can promote weight loss and reduce other symptoms, certain medications are needed which including insulin can be prescribed to regulate hormone levels.

According to these medications may include:

Birth control pills, which can control menstrual cycles, reduce androgen production and help clear acne.

Fertility medications, which can stimulate ovulation in PCOS patients who wish to become pregnant. These drugs include clomiphene (also known as the brand name Clomid or Serophene), which are taken orally; or gonadotropins such as follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) or luteinizing hormone (LH), which are injected.

Anti-obesity drugs such as orlistat (Xenical) and sibutramine (Meridia).

Anti-androgens such as spironolactone (Aldactone) or flutamide (Eulexin).

Diabetes medications such as metformin (Glucophage) may improve insulin resistance.
